Tom Bellamy, a neuroscientist, was happily married when he developed feelings for his co-worker. He loved his wife. He did not want to start a romantic relationship with the co-worker, nor did he even tell her about his feelings. And yet, he could not stop thinking about her.
It may sound like a crush, but Bellamy uses another word for it: limerence. Coined as a psychological term in the 1970s, limerence is an intense, all-consuming, often obsessive attachment to another person that is different from other romantic feelings, according to Bellamy and other researchers.
"Limerence is best described as an altered state of mind," Bellamy says. It feels fantastic at first, he adds, describing it as a natural high, giving you increased energy and optimism. "And that's why it's addictive. Your thoughts are racing, and you just generally feel more optimistic and euphoric," he says.
According to Google trends, worldwide search interest for limerence has risen since 2020. There has also been an increase in online material relating to limerence, such as threads and blogs wrestling with the question of when, and why, love might tip into obsession - and what those affected can do about it.
An experience or 'episode' of limerence might happen just once, or numerous times throughout a person's life.
"Limerence is something that happens to us," in a way that may be involuntary, said Dorothy Tennov, the psychologist who first coined the term in her 1979 book, Love and Limerence. After conducting over 300 interviews about romantic love, she identified a phenomenon that didn't yet seem to have a name of its own - an involuntary, intrusive and overwhelming longing for another person. In psychological research, this person, the obsession, is known as the limerent object (LO). Being limerent does not necessarily mean then pursuing the other person, or feeling entitled to their attention. However, research suggests that in some cases limerence has the potential to develop into harmful behaviour, such as stalking.
Tennov wrote that an experience or "episode" of limerence might happen just once, or numerous times throughout a person's life. An average episode reportedly lasts between 18 months and three years, though some may last longer.
But most importantly, according to Tennov, if limerence is left unmanaged, it can have a devastating impact on the person experiencing it.
Bellamy describes it as a distressing experience. "I could clearly see - intellectually, there's no good end to this, and I don't want this to be happening. But I just could not get a hold of my emotions," he says, of his limerent episode. At this point, he adds, it can start to feel scary because "you feel helpless", and out of control.


